CAREER PROFILE

Truly diverse background and professional experience combining 30+ years of increasing and verifiable technical ability, leadership, and superior performance as an engineering supervisor and subject matter expert of complex distributed controls systems.  Energetic self-starter that continuously seeks business and controls systems process improvements taking extra responsibility, the hardest challenges and toughest decisions for plant reliability.  Documented history of sustaining critical systems infrastructure troubleshooting and repairing complex instrumentation, automation and control systems from relay logic, PLCs, to one off analog and/or digital systems and related equipment.  Proficient with control systems design and integration including software programming, and hardware specification. Excellent verbal and written communicator with great relationship building and customer service skills combined with a positive can-do attitude!  Keen ability to quickly learn and adapt to changing situations, systems and processes.  Perfectly capable of working and flourishing in any environment, team-oriented or alone.  Highly praised and sought after for critical, analytical thought and passionate dedication to solving problems and training of teams and individuals.

PROFESSIONAL WORK EXPERIENCE

Automation Specialist II, Prime Controls - Lewisville, TX (7/22 - Present)

Design and Engineering support for new semiconductor fab Intel Chandler, AZ Fab 52.  Provided semiconductor project design and estimation for all industrial control Systems.  Performed design review, estimation, project coordination, and programming for all Process Control Systems including procurement and design review of all PLC network infrastructure, wiring, instrumentation and control balbe sizing and selection and related support. 

Independent Controls Systems Contractor (Private Corporation) -  Rockwall, TX	(07/20 – Present)

Built Independent Corporation performing consulting on the design of Industrial Controls Systems for various large industry partners and customers (manufacturing plants).  Platforms included Siemens TIA V16/17, Schneider EPMS/BMS, Allen Bradley Studio 5000, Logix 500.

Facilities Controls Engineer, Texas Instruments - Richardson, TX			(07/14 – 07/20)

Facilities Controls Engineer Industrial, Controls System Owner of large Process Distributed Controls System infrastructure. (Involved from initial factory commissioning, to full build-out.  Responsible for engineering design process for the continuous expansion and sustaining of all aspects of electrical and hardware design, including programming, troubleshooting, and repair without interruption to manufacturing.  Expertly managed Siemens PCS 7 (DCS) with 65+ S7-400/H (Hot Backup) PLCs, including client/server hardware, and software, distributed IO, fault-tolerant fiber networking ring, field bus devices, process instrumentation and redundant DC power distribution system.  Experienced with Siemens PCS 7 (S7-400/300/200, WinCC HMI/SCADA), Wago PFC (Codesys), zenon Energy Edition (HMI/SCADA), Wonderware Intouch, Modicon, Siemens/ABB VFDs, SIMOCODE programmable motor controls.   Performed contractor management, process improvement, capital improvement, cost and energy savings projects.  Considered the domain expert for all systems and proper integration of process plant control systems (Fab clean room air, Exhaust, Deionized Water, Industrial Waste Water, Life Safety, Chemical and Gas delivery systems control).
Automation Specialist, Prime Controls, LP - Lewisville, TX				(11/09 – 07/14)

Responsible for programming, commissioning, start-up and sustaining of industrial control and automation systems in the critical infrastructure arena (Process Control, DI Water, Life Safety, Oil/Gas, Semiconductor).  Performed calibration, troubleshooting and repair of associated instrumentation, networking, field devices, field busses, hardware.  Trained technicians from many companies.  Platforms include Siemens Distributed Process Control system PCS 7, WinCC SCADA/HMI, Wago PFC (Codesys 2.3.x), Emerson ROC 800, Modicon, zenon Energy Edition.

Senior Field Service Technician, Geo-Systems USA - Grand Prairie, TX		(04/07 – 10/09)

Responsible for the commissioning, certification and inspection of UL/FM listed fire protection equipment such as fire pumps and their associated controllers, electric and diesel drivers, automatic transfer switches, emergency power supplies, piping and valves ensuring compliance with published standards of NFPA 20, Federal, State and local authorities.  Conducted troubleshooting, adjustment and repair of all related equipment.  Rebuilt and replaced complete fire pump systems including all electrical wiring and mechanical fitting.  Performed initial setup and adjustment of multi-pump domestic water systems.  Experienced with equipment from all major manufacturers.  Trained all company junior personnel,  facility management and maintenance teams at selected projects.  

Digital Audio Workstation IT Consultant, tenthconcept media  - Arlington, TX	(01/05 – 04/07)	

Custom built, configured and optimized high performance Digital Audio Workstations (DAWs) for multi-track recording for various media related clients.   Built and integrated heterogeneous networks combining the strengths of GNU/Linux, Mac OS X and Windows based workstations and servers based on customer requirements and needs.

Lead Gas Turbine Electrical Systems Technician, U.S. Navy  - Norfolk, VA		(11/02 – 12/04)


Directly trained, supervised and evaluated the efforts of 13 personnel in the operation, preventative and corrective maintenance of General Electric Main Propulsion LM2500 Gas Turbine Engines, Propulsion and Auxiliary electronic control and monitoring systems (SCADA) and associated electrical and mechanical subsystems. Performed quality assurance inspections and training.  Technical leader for all engineering instrumentation and control systems.

Achievements and highlights include:

Awarded fifth Navy Achievement medal for leadership in the troubleshooting and repair effort on a propulsion degrading problem to the Propulsion Control Console during Operation Iraqi Freedom.  

As Engineering Officer of the Watch (EOOW), effectively demonstrated the ability to coordinate and lead personnel to provide safe and efficient propulsion, electric power and auxiliary services during day-to-day operations under normal and emergency conditions.

Fulfilled collateral duties as Shipboard Gage Calibration Program Coordinator and Engineering Department Training coordinator.  Overhauled programs bringing services back into full compliance with guidelines and model for other Naval units and Engineering departments.

Administered mission-critical Integrated Condition Assessment (SCADA) system, Windows Servers and plant networking systems.

Recruiter in Charge, Navy Recruiting District Dallas - Dallas, TX			(08/99 – 11/02)

Directly supervised and managed personnel in every aspect of the production of sufficient number of qualified applicants for enlistment into the U. S. Navy encompassing 920 square miles of urban Texas.  Effectively demonstrated the ability to communicate and relate with prospects, families, educators and the community.  Performed analysis of lead generation, trending, short and long-term programs to inform recruiters of more effective ways of job performance.  Analyzed competition and market trends and instituted required changes in canvassing.  Generated and enacted creative public relations, advertising, promotional, special events and presentations to increase public awareness and recruitment.  Mentored and prepared candidates for Naval service.

Achievements and highlights include:

Awarded two Navy Achievement medals for meeting or exceeded recruiting goals four years consecutively.

Received numerous monthly and quarterly awards.

Increased New Contract Objective (NCO) by 20%.

Achieved 133% New Contract Objective and exceeded critical sub-category goals.

Gas Turbine Electrical Systems Technician, Engineering Team Trainer - Various Locations 	(04-91 – 05/99)
	
Responsible for directly training, supervising and evaluating the efforts of personnel in the operation, preventative and corrective maintenance of four General Electric Main Propulsion LM2500 Gas Turbine Engines, three Allison 501-K17 Gas Turbine Generator Sets, Engineering Control Surveillance System and associated electrical and mechanical subsystems including waste heat boilers and main distribution switchboards.  

Achievements and highlights include:

Awarded Navy Achievement medal for completely troubleshooting and repairing the Propulsion and Auxiliary Control Console after fire rendered it inoperative.

As Engineering Team Trainer, was the motivating force behind the training of all new Propulsion and Auxiliary Control Console operators and technicians.



TECHNICAL PROFICIENCIES

Operating Systems:  Microsoft Windows Professional/Server, MacOS X/XI, GNU/Linux: Debian/Ubuntu based, Red Hat / RHEL based, Alpine, FreeBSD, Docker, Virtual Machines (VM Ware Workstation/OracleVirtualbox)
Networking: TCP/IP, DNS, BIND, NFS, NIS, Samba, OpenSSH,  Apache (Webservers), firewalls, NAT
Applications:  Microsoft Office, Sharepoint, Open/LibreOffice, Ableton Live, Pro Tools
Industrial Automation Platforms: Siemens PCS 7, Step 7 Classic, Open PCS 7, Siemens TIA, Codesys (2.3/3.5), zenon Energy WonderWare InTouch and System Platform, Ignition HMI, 
Industrial Automation Programming: IEC 61131-3 (Structured Text (SCL), Function Block (FB), Continuous Function Chart (CFC), Ladder Logic (LD) and SCL), plant simulation
Industrial Networking: Profibus, Profinet, Modbus, BACnet, Serial (EIA/TIA-232/422/485), HART
Software Development and Engineering:  Javascript (ES6), NodeJS, Python 3, Swift 5, CSS3, HTML5, DOM
Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC):  git, Github/Gitlab, CI/CD, Digital Ocean, AWS, Confluence, Jira
Frameworks: Angular, React, Vapor, SwiftUI, Ruby on Rails, NodeJS, Node-RED, Apache Kafka
Mobile Platforms: Embedded and Containerized Linux, iOS, Android, Mobile operating systems

EDUCATION

Thomas Edison State College (2020 - 2022) - BS in Nuclear Energy Engineering Technology (BS.NEET126)

PROFESSIONAL TRAINING AND CERTIFICATIONS

Wago Programmable Fieldbus Controllers
Wonderware System Platform 2014+
Zenon Energy Edition HMI/SCADA distributed engineering
Cummins NPower diesel engine start-up and maintenance certification
Metron and Joslyn Clark electrical/diesel fire pump controller factory training certifications
Gas Turbine Electrical Systems Technician and maintenance schools (Distinguished Military Graduate) 
Microsoft Windows Server maintenance and management courses
Shipboard Propulsion Fuels and JP-5 systems and testing certification
Recruiting, Leadership, Recruiting Station Management and Professional Selling Skills courses

AWARDS AND HONORS

Five Navy Achievement Medals, Three Good Conduct Medals, Ten Letters of Commendation, Distinguished Military Graduate (Gas Turbine schools), and 21 Gold Wreaths for Recruiting Excellence, Community/Volunteering awards.

REFRENCES

Additional information regarding training and references available upon request.







